# Git

Git is a version control system where we can track the code changes made to our project.

Suppose, if we are working on a project and added a new features to the project. But after a few days we found that the project is having some serious bugs. In order to roll back to the previous features or version we need to maintain the old version of the project code base.

Git helps to maintain the all changes made to the project by keeping track of when the change had happened, who made the change, which files are changed.

These all changes are maintained by using git repositories.

> Project folder is also known as Git rpository.

Git is a service which is provide by GitHub, Bit Bucket, GitLab.

## CMD Commands

1. To set your identity in Git
   > git config --global user.name "Name"  
   > git config --global user.email "Email"
2. To set your identity for present working repository
   > git config user.name "Name"  
   > git config user.email "Email"
3. ls

   > Lists out the all files in the present working directory.

4. mkdir directory_name

   > Creates a new directory inside the present working directory.

5. cd directory_name

   > Changes to the specified directory from the present working directory.

6. ls -a

   > - Lists out all the hidden files in the present working directory.
   > - All hidden files starts with .

7. git init

   > - Initializes the empty git repository where all the codebase and codechanges are maintained.
   > - After initializing the repository if any changes are made to the project the git will pick it.

8. touch filename.extension

   > - Creates the specified file in the present working directory.  
   >   touch file1.txt
   > - Creates the file named file1 in the present working directory.

   > Note:
   >
   > - These files are not yet saved in the history. If you share the project with other developers these files, changes are not acessible t the others.
   > - These changes are local to your system.

9. git status
   > - Lists out all the files whose changes are not yet saved in the history.
   > - These files are untracked. These file changes are not known to the others.
10. git add .
    > - Adds all the files whose changes are not yet saved in the history into the staging area.
    > - It adds all untracked files into the staging area.
    > - It is used for reviewing purpose.
11. git commit -m "message"
    > - Commits all the files in the staging area. So, that these changed files are now saved in th history.
    > - Now these changed files are acessed by the other developers also.
12. git restore --staged filename
    > It removes the specified file from the staging area.
13. git log
    > - Shows the history of the project.
    > - Shows the list of commits made to the project.
    > - For each commit a unique id - hash is generated by using hashing from the previous commit hash.
14. git reset hashid
    > - If you commited by mistake or if you want to revert back the commit you can do it by using the commit hashid.
    > - If you revert back the commit all the remaining commits made after the resetting commit were also reverted back.
    > - These reverted commits changes now appear in th unstaging area.
15. rm -rf filename
    > Deletes the specified file from the present working directory.
16. touch filename
    > It Creates the specified file without any content.
17. vi filename
    > It creates the specified file with content.
18. cat filename
    > It reads/displays the content of the file
19. git stash
    > - If you do not want your file changes to commit and do not want to loss the changes when they are in unstaging area we use stashing.
    > - These file changes are now not present in both staging and unstaging area but still they are part of the project.
    > - Inorder to add the files to the stashing area firest add them to the staging area.
20. git stash pop
    > It is used to bring back the files into the staging area from the stashing area.
21. git stash clear
    > - It is used to remove the files from the stashing area.
    > - These files are now not the part of the project. Those file changes are now lost.

# GitHub

1. git remote add origin "GitHub Repository Link"
   > - Connects the local repository with the remote repository. Such that our repository is avilable online and can be accessed by others.
   > - remote - working with the remote URL
   > - add - adds the external URL
   > - origin - external URL short form
2. git remote remove origin
   > removes the remote origin
3. git push origin master
   > It push the code to the remote GitHub repository.
4. git branch
   > Returns the present branch which we are working on.
5. git checkout branch_name
   > It switch from the present working branch to the specified branch.
6. git fetch origin
   > It fetches the latest updates from the remote repository origin without merging them into the local branch
7. git checkout -b main origin/main
   > It creates new local branch main and maintains in track with the remote main branch.
8. git clone repository_url
   > It copies the remote repository into the local machine.
9. git remote add upstream forked_project_url
   > It allows you to fetch the updates from the original repository when you are working on the forked one.
10. git fetch -all -prune
    > Fetches all the upadtes from the remote repository.
    > Removes references to the remothe branches that no longer exist.
11. git reset --hard upstream/main
    > Resets the main branch of origin to main branch of upstream.
12. git pull upstream main
    > Fetches the latest updates and changes from the upstream repository and merge them into the current local branch.
13. git rebase -i hash_value
    > used to squash the multiple commits into the single commit.
14. git remote -v
    >Displays the list of all remote repositories that are linked to the local git repository along with the fetch and push URL's.

